# CS-360

#### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The main goals for this app were to help the end-user maintain an inventory of items and keep track of the different values associated with each item element. The requirements created in order to meet this goal were for the app to have a database of users and allow the user to either login or register to use this app. For the items themselves, the app needed to have a database to store the inventory items. This database needed to have each item be displayed to the user in a grid or list form with certain information about the items listed in the grid. In addition to viewing the list of all items, the app needed to be able to display all information about one item in detail and allow the user to update existing items, add items, and delete items from the database. Finally, there was a requirement that the user should be able to receive a notification from the user device when the current stock of an item was at zero.

#### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
In order to support the user needs, there were three main screens needed. By order of navigation, the first screen needed was the login screen. This screen needed to allow the user to enter a username/password combination and either register or login to the app. The second screen that was necessary was the main gallery screen. This screen provided the interface from the database to the user and displayed the database information in a way that the user could easily understand. Lastly, the detail screen was necessary to allow the user to clearly see all the information for one database item and be able to edit or remove that item from the database. This screen also served as the screen which allowed the user to add new items to the database. By combining the screens for entering new items and viewing existing items the user was able to maintain a clear understanding of where each field was on the page and kept a consistent navigation throughout completing the task of editing or adding items. I included a fourth screen which was not entirely necessary given how limited the current version of this app is, but will be useful if I ever decide to make improvements and expand this app in future. This screen was the settings screen. For the current version of this app, this screen simply includes a toggle for allowing notifications or prohibiting notifications. My UI designs kept the users in mind by limiting the amount of extraneous information on each screen and giving each main activity it’s own screen as to not clutter up one screen with multiple actions which could confuse the user or allow them to accidentally complete an action they did not wish to.  

#### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
For this app, I understood that a major element of it’s success was going to be in the UI so I started the coding process for this app by naming my UI elements to things that would make sense and getting references to them so I could ensure that I was able to access the inputs from each of them and give outputs to different elements when necessary. After making sure that I had the input and out to the screen elements down, I when on and started to create my databases since those were the foundation that would drive the rest of the code. In future when working on applications that require a lot of user input, I would use these same techniques to ensure that I don’t run into any problems involving the applications data source or not correctly retrieving information from the applications screen elements. 

#### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
After creating each code section, to test that the code was functional, I either did manual testing from the user interface by attempting to complete each of the actions associated with that code, or I completed in code tests by calling the code part in the create function of the class with outputs to the log to show whether the expected result happened. This process of testing is important as it helps the developer to see where there could be shortcomings in the logic or if there is some element in the program that needs to be adjusted. For this app, my final test was to start the app fresh on the emulator, after removing all the app data to ensure that this would work the same as if I had never used it before, and going through the list of user requirements and goals to see if I ran into any issues. My final test revealed that I had been successful in creating functional code but also that there were issues that need to be fixed in future to improve the quality of the end result. 

#### Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The place I had to innovate to overcome a challenge was in checking to see if the user was wanting to enter a new item into the database or if they were trying to edit an existing item. To overcome this issue I looked through the Android Studio documentation to see if there was a way to easily send information from one screen to another. I was able to find the class and methods that I would need in order to send information from the main gallery screen to the detail screen to tell it which action the user was trying to perform. Looking back this method was not particularly clean but it gave me enough to go on initially to where I could now go back and fix this later on to be more concise and clean. 

#### In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
The component I felt most successfully showed my skills was the item detail component. Specifically the user flow in that when the user first selects an item to view they are shown a screen without the ability to accidentally edit the item and when they do chose to edit the item, the same button is used to then save the changes. In addition to this feature as well as the other button which is able to handle both deleting an item and reverting the changes made, I felt that my inclusion of the Toast element to let the user know what the result their action was, was a good demonstration of my understanding that users should receive feedback from the app in order to feel engaged with the app. 
